vsfs(1) -- Command line tools for VSFS
=======================================

## SYNOPSIS

`vsfs` _command_ [ARGS] ...

## DESCRIPTION

`vsfs` is the command line utility to manipulate VSFS file system.

`vsfs index create` [--key KEY] [--type TYPE] _DIR_ _NAME_

`vsfs index destroy` _DIR_ _NAME_

`vsfs index insert` [-s|--stdin] [-b|--batch NUM] _NAME_ [FILE KEY]...

`vsfs index remove` [-s|--stdin] [-b|--batch NUM] _NAME_ [FILE KEY]...

`vsfs index stat` _DIR_ _NAME_

`vsfs index list` [-r|--recursive] _DIR_

`vsfs search` _QUERY_

## OPTIONS

### General options:

 * `-h, --help`:
  Display this help message.

 * `-H, --host` _HOST_:
  Specify the host of VSFS master node.

 * `-p, --port` _PORT_:
  Specify the port number of VSFS master node (default: 9987).

### File index operations and options

A file index in VSFS is identified by its location (i.e. _DIR_) and name (i.g.,
_NAME_), while it is possible to specify each index performance characteristics
independantly when create this index.

Create a file index on directory _DIR_:

  * `vsfs index create` [--key _KEY_] [--type _TYPE_] _DIR_ _NAME_:

    * `-k, -key` _KEY_:
	  Choose the data type of the key, currently it supports _int8, int16,
	  int32, int64, float, double, string_.
    * `-t, --type` _TYPE_:
	  Choose the structure of index (_btree_ and _hash_). Optional, default
	  value is _btree_. _Btree_ index is favorable for range query, and _hash_
	  index is favorable for point query.

Delete a file index on directory _DIR_ with _NAME_:

  * `vsfs index delete` _DIR_ _NAME_:

Insert records into a file index:

There are two ways to insert/update records into VSFS: 1) specify the file path
and its corrensponding keys from parameters and 2) feed the index records from
the pipeline. If there are spaces in file path or keys, you should put them
in quotation marks.

  * `vsfs index insert` [_options_] _NAME_ _FILE_ _KEY_ [_FILE_ _KEY_]...:
	Directly specify files and its key in command line parameters.

  * `vsfs index insert` [_options_] --stdin _NAME_:
	Use pipeline to feed file index. vsfs accepts file index records (e.g., a
	(_path, key_) pair) from stdin. Each line in stdin is considered as
	one record with format "/file/path key".

  * Options:
	* `-b, --batch` _NUM_:
	  Sets the batch size of sending index records.

## EXAMPLES

	# Index two files with float keys.
	$ vsfs index insert energy /foo/bar/file0 100 /foo/bar/file1 201.2

	# Index two files with string keys. Each file has space(s) in its file path.
	$ vsfs index insert "string index" "/foo/bar/drug 100" "mark 100" "/foo/another bar/drug-101" "invalid value"

	# Feeds index through pipeline.
	$ gen_index.py | vsfs index insert --stdin energy
	$ cat /path/preprocessed-symbols.txt | vsfs index insert --stdin symbols

## ENVIRONMENT

- `VSFS_HOST`:
  The hostname of VSFS primary master.

- `VSFS_PORT`:
  The TCP port number of VSFS primary master.

## FILES

`$HOME/.config/vsfs.json`

## SEE ALSO

vsfs(8)
